The only thing that I'm
going to change now,
the idea is that we will have now
code that we need to call the server.
So we need to play a little bit on
the server now to create the endpoints,
the database, okay?
And then we're going to
code that from client.
Don't worry, it's not too boring.
You also have the code in
the companion website, but
I'm going to write this first code
at least just to start the engines.
So I'm going to open now server.js.
So I'm going to the backend now, okay?
So let's analyze some parts here.
So you can see that in terms of ExpressJS,
I have only two definitions that it says
that first, it's statically serving,
where is the, here,
it's statically serving the public folder.
So that's why when you try an emesh or
when you try a URL,
it first check in the public folder, okay?
If it's not there,
it continues, and in this case,
it's getting here with this star.
This star, what it's doing is this is
because we are a single page application,
so every other route is also
going to the index HTML.
This is what this is doing, okay?
So here we are going to add
the rest of the endpoints.
And then for the database, For
the database, we are going to use a simple
database library, it's called lowdb.
Just for, let's say, learning purposes and
just to make this faster, I'm doing this.
But if not, it can be MongoDB,
MySQL, wherever you want, okay?
Of course, that will take more time.
We will add a server, and so on.
We are trying to make it
simple with lowdb, and why?
Lowdb, it's an open source library for
Node, also for the browser, but they're
going to use the Node version only,
that writes the content in JSON files.
And that's easy for debugging because
we can actually see the JSON file and
see if the data has been stored or
not or how, okay?
That if it's a MongoDB or something
like that, where I need a viewer,
I need another tool, a dashboard
to actually see what's going on.
So here with these libraries,
it's much simpler.
And the library is just creating a JSON
file here with the name auth.json
in the root folder of the project.
But because we didn't write anything yet,
the file doesn't exist.
But on the first time we write something,
something will appear, okay, makes sense?
So what we need is on the app,
we are going to make a couple
of requests on post.
So for example,
we can say that we will put all the APIs
under the auth folder,
and we can say register.
And if you have experience with Node.js or
ExpressJS, this is how you
define a new endpoint,
in this case, for
the post HTTP action or method.
And just in case, the arguments that we
receive is the request and the response.
So in the request, we will get all
the information coming from the browser.
On the response object,
we will send information to the browser,
that ExpressJS 101, okay?
So what's the idea here?
Well, the idea is that
we are going to create,
first, through these two
lines that we have here,
what we are doing is that we
are reading the body as JSON.
We are parsing the body as JSON.
So that happens automatically,
which means that when the client is
sending us a JSON,
we will get that through request.body.
That's the JSON already parsed, okay?
So for example,
that means that I can create a user object
that we're going to save, okay, like this.
And the name of the user
will come from the body,
from a name property that then we need
to send from the client, okay, or later.
The email, something similar.
And then the password, something similar.
Initially, we will save
the password in plaintext.
So we are going to do it wrong first,
okay, just to see that.
Then we can change it.
So that's the user, and
then I need to save the user.
The thing is that maybe it's a user
that is already registered, right?
So I mean, I could go and
talk to my DB now that this API
works pretty simple, this db.data.
And then over the data object is the root
folder of that JSON file that we
are going to save.
So for example, I can create a users
collection, I can call them users, okay?
And then I can push the user, and
then I can ask to the database to write.
In this case,
it's going to write in the file system.
If not, it's going to be in memory and
it will write at the end of
the server lifecycle, okay?
But if the server is aborted for
some reason,
might change one being the file system,
okay?
So that's why I'm writing immediately.
I'm not taking in consideration here
performance, okay, scalability, okay?
We are trying to understand
authentication here.
One thing at a time, okay?
But the problem is that, yeah,
if I'm registering the same user twice,
I will have two entries,
which doesn't make any sense.
So I should check first if the user
does exist, okay, makes sense?
So to do that, because we will use
that thing a couple of times, so
we will need to check or find a user
in the database a couple of times,
I'm going to create a function.
I could create a class also,
I can do this OOP, but
I will try to make it
as simple as possible.
Then you can rewrite this or
you can refactor this project with your
own way of working without any problem.
So let me go full screen for a second.
So I'm going to create a function,
findUser.
The user will receive an email
that is our key, our username.
That's how we are going to do this.
But if you wanna have a different
username, that's fine.
If you wanna have the email and
the username differently, it's fine.
It's a larger form, more data inside.
And a simpler way to do that
is to get an array of results.
It's always an array
even if it's only one.
So we're going to talk
to the data to users and
we're going to filter that array, okay?
So we will use a lambda expression
using some functional programming.
So for each user,
I will check if the email of the user,
it's equal to the email that we
are receiving as an argument.
This returns an array always.
So I will check if the length of
the array is 0, then I will return.
I can do null or undefined saying, hey,
I don't have that user, it doesn't exist.
Both will work, null,
it's up to you which one do you prefer.
If not,
I'm going to return the first user.
That should be the only one, actually.
So that is simple way to find a user,
makes sense?
So now, before writing the user, I should
check first if that user is found.
So I can say,
userFound = findUser with the email.
And then if the user was found,
I need to do something.
If not, I need to do something else.
So let's organize this.
If the user was found
is user already exists.
So what we need to do,
we need to send an error to the client.
Remember, we are writing the backend
here and we are doing an API.
So what I need to do is to the respond,
I'm going to send, for
example, I can send different code
status like a Forehand rail or
Shasta 200, it's up to you with an object.
And we can say that, okay,
it's false, so it's not okay.
And the message can be something
like the user already exists.
And then we can use that message client
side to render that to the user,
makes sense?
And if it's okay, it seems like
the user is new, so we are good.
After writing the user, I need to
send back an answer that it can be,
okay, true, meaning that, yeah, it worked.
To be in RESTful, 100% compatible,
I should send also
a different status code on the error,
okay, you can do that.
And as I mentioned at
the beginning of this course,
this code will not be right now at
least 100% ready for production.
In fact,
I'm not doing any validation here,
such as if the name is empty,
the email is empty.
So there are many things to do.
So I'm going to leave you
here a couple of marks,
boring things that we need to do that are
not important for the authentication flow.
They are important for production, okay?
So don't leave this code as it is.
But for the flow and to understand
what we need to do as web developers,
we can bypass that part for now, and
then you can add validation, yes.
>> Just wanted to make a comment that for
anybody wanting to dig deeper
into Express and API design,
Scott Moss's version four of the API
design with Node.js course is on
the website and covers Express.
It uses Prisma and Postgres on the
backend, so deeper dive into API design.
>> Yeah, also many of the things
that we will be covering,
you can get deeper in Frontend Masters
library in different courses.
This is infinite.
So that's why we are taking one workshop
at a time, right, one topic at a time.